# Predicate Logic
Predicate logic (also called first-order logic or quantified logic) builds on the fundamentals of propositional calculus/sentential logic.

# Deterministic Finite Automata (DFAs)
**WIP**

# Context-Free Grammars (CFGs)
Context-free grammars are one way to describe languages. Compared to regular expressions or finite automata, they capture greater 
nuance in languages because of the way they describe relationships between concepts and phrases. For example, verb phrases might 
contain noun phrases, and noun phrases may contain verb phrases. More abstract propositional/sentential logic is too high-level to 
capture these kinds of linguistic structures and relations.

Formally, we can define a CFG using a 4-tuple (*V*, Σ, *R*, *S*), where:
- _V_ is a finite set of **variable** symbols,
- Σ is a finite set, disjoint with _V_, of **terminal** symbols,
- _R_ is a finite set of *rules*, and each rule is a variable producing a string of variables and/or terminals, and
- _S_ ∈ _V_ is the start variable.

Take grammar *G<sub>1</sub>* as an example:

_G<sub>1</sub>_ = ({_A_, _B_}, {0, 1, #}, _R_, _A_)

Where the set of rules _R_ =
- _A_ -> 0*A*1
- _A_ -> _B_
- _B_ -> #

*G<sub>1</sub>* has two variable symbols: _A_ and _B_. _A_ is the start symbol.
The grammar also has three terminal symbols: 0, 1, and #. _A_ and _B_ are non-terminal variables, which means they can produce other variable symbols.
By contrast, terminal symbols cannot produce additional variables. Each line in the grammar is a _rule of production_.
You might also think of them as substitution rules. In *G<sub>1</sub>*, the first rule tells us that the symbol _A_ can be replaced by 0*A*1.
The A in 0A1 can once again produce 0*A*1 or _B_. Additionally, notice that the variable symbol _A_ occurs twice on the left-hand side of the rules.
We can simplify the rule set by combining the first two lines into one, such that _R_ =
- _A_ -> 0*A*1 | _B_ (read as _A_ produces 0*A*1 **OR** _A_ produces _B_)
- _B_ -> #

Furthermore, we can also simplify the rules of production by converting the grammar into *Chomsky normal form*. A grammar is in Chomsky normal form if it has the following form:
- _A_ -> _BC_
- _A_ -> a

where:
- a is any terminal symbol,
- _A_, _B_, and _C_ are any variable symbols **and** _B_ and _C_ are not the start variable, and
- The rule _S_ -> ε is permitted, where _S_ is the start symbol and can produce the empty string (ε).

## Deriving Strings
Here is how we might derive a string using the grammar (the parentheses indicate the terminals introduced in that step of deriving a string):

A -> (0A1) -> 0(0A1)1 -> 00(0A1)11 -> 000(B)111 -> 000(#)111

The above shows a *derivation* of a string, 000#111, from *G<sub>1</sub>*. The first rule of production used was A -> 0A1. Then, rule one was used again to derive 00A11, and then a third time to derive 000A111.
Then, we used the second rule, _A_ -> _B_, yielding the string 000*B*111. Now that we no longer have _A_ in the string, we cannot produce 0A1.
Instead, as we now have B in the string, we can only derive the final string 000#111. This is because _B_ can only produce the # symbol, which does not have any further production rules in the grammar.

You might have noticed that the grammar can only yield a specific type of string: one with # as the middle symbol, with _n_ 0's to the left and _n_ 1's to the right.
Here's the grammar in its original form again:\
_G<sub>1</sub>_ = ({_A_, _B_}, {0, 1, #}, _R_, _A_)

Where the set of rules _R_ =
- _A_ -> 0*A*1
- _A_ -> _B_
- _B_ -> #

For clarity, all of the following strings could then be derived from *G<sub>1</sub>*:

- A -> B -> #\
- A -> 0A1 -> 0B1 -> 0#1\
- A -> 0A1 -> 00A11 -> 00B11 -> 00#11\
- A -> 0A1 -> 00A11 -> 000A111 -> 000B111 -> 000#111\
- A -> 0A1 -> O0A11 -> 000A111 -> 0000A1111 -> 0000#1111

Thus, we can describe the *language* of *G<sub>1</sub>* as *L*(*G<sub>1</sub>*) = {0<sup>n</sup>#1<sup>n</sup> | n ≥ 0}. In other words, the language is the set of all strings that can be generated by the grammar. Languages generated by context-free grammars are called *context-free languages* (CFLs)

